secret life of cats
world war two from space
dads army intro
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
jquery

nodejs

html canvas reference
http://www.w3schools.com/tags/ref_canvas.asp

view for papers covering a rane or extended period. overlaps search prtiod.

history raises questions, questions overlay

uploadable extra content inc 3d reconstructions

The Google Maps JavaScript API V3 now supports the display and management of custom map types, allowing you to implement your own map imagery or tile overlays.

cronoline with underlying spectrum. markers are colourcoded to position on line.


       o              o           o   o  o      o           o  o       o
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
cccccccccccccccmcccmccmccmcmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmymmmmmymmymymymymymyyyyyyyyyyyy



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

History is written as large bodies of text

I find it difficult to build a picture in my mind of exactly what is being talked about just looking at dates in large bodies of text.

Making an info-graphic for myself such as a time-line with annotations is a distraction, or worse kills enthusiasm.

Lets start with an example,  If a classic book that I love was written very quickly compared to the authors other works I may never have noticed, only a literiture scholar may know. But if that information were in a google earth type environment I would be able to:
search for the author

see where he/she lived

see how long it took to write that book

See what other factors were at play, such as the weather being terrible.

I could then quickly arrive at a conclusion such as, "The author did a lot more writing at this time because they were snowed in at home". Such a conclusion would be much more difficult to come to using traditional sources of information.

The mission statement is to create, as a community a free and open source application that graphically depicts historical information for the purpose of rapid analysis. The aim is to have a map or other display with an overarching time line incorporating the span of earth's history. This time line can incorporate user defined time lines that track the consequences of an event or the progress of an entity such as a person or an object (e.g. a ship or a sacred relic) through both time and space (location). To use currently available knowledge bases and software such as wikipedia and open street maps.

Data Sets. Someone will have already collated some information about a topic and published it in a digital format we can work with. The topic is irelevent save for categorisation. Any topic is useful so datasets that deal with deep time right up to now are all good.
usable API's, backend database, server side code, CMS
What data will be relevent for building timelines, community varification etc

User generated content sir! Incentives
Streamline input methods 
UX is important, I.e “get these fuckin' forms outta the way”
App, allow updates to users content easily
Ensure validity. Incentivise checking citations
Information ranking, colour codes showing community/expert support

Tools that will enable this service to work include
Drupal, CMS
Node.js Javascript running as process on server, can talk to webpages and API's
MySQL, database
Javascript, code for controlling browser using web page
PHP, server side language used by drupal, Can be used by us if we need it

Find out about drupal, it could be the frame on which we build, or maybe not.
Do some java script tutorials online, Helps for website and nodejs 
Think about how you would want this stuff displayed, draw pictures, write notes. Watch the video about drupal, check the forum for stuff that we already are looking at, post stuff you find out about. Research every term in this presentation you don’t understand.